Ice cream if you don't let me in !
Water way to answer the door !
Figs the doorbell, it's broken
B-2 school on time !
B-4 I freeze to death, please open this door !
Banana split so ice creamed !
Orange you glad I didn't say banana ?
I didn't realise you were some kind of of nut !
No bell, that's why I knocked!
Cash me if you can !
You talk like an owl!
Dishwasher way I spoke before I had false teeth!
Pudding your shoes on before your trousers is a silly idea!
Anita a tissue! Ah Choo!
Water you doing in my house?
I don't know, you tell me!
Kethchup to me and I will tell you.
Don't cry. It's only a joke.
Police stop telling these awful knock, knock jokes!
I knew you were nuts !
Cows go 'moo' not who!
Lion on your doorstep, open up !
Apple your hair if you don't let me in !
Ears some more knock knock jokes for you !
Ears looking at you !
Eggstremely cold waiting for you to open the door !
Eskimo questions. I'll tell you no lies !
Egg-citing to meet you !
Europe'ning the door too slow, come on !
Dad fuel to the fire !
Diesel be your bag on the step I suppose !
Diesel teach me to go knocking around on doors
Dishes your friend Margaret, so open the door !
Dishes your friend, open the door !
Dishes a very bad joke !
Disk is recorded message, please leave your message after the beep !
Dismay be a joke but it doesn't make me laugh !
Dozen anybody want to play with me ?
Dozen anyone live here anymore !
Dozen anyone want to let me in !
Dozen anyone ever answer the door !
Dragon your feet again !
Drew you remember the time? !
Just duck ! They're throwing things at us !
Dishes a great knock-knock joke !
Dummy a favour and go away!!                                             
Aunt you glad Granny's gone ?
Not me - I just got here !
One-der why you keep asking that ?
One-derful day, isn't it ?
The Oily bird catches the worm !
Opera-tunity, and you thought opportunity only knocked once !
Orange you even going to open the door !
Orange juice sorry you asked ?
Orange juice going to talk to me !
Owl I can say is "Knock, knock" !
I-8 lunch already. Is dinner ready ?
Ice cream and scream and scream until I'm sick !
Ice cream soda whole world will know what a nut you are
Island on your roof with my parachute
Ketchup with me and I'll tell you !
Ketchup the tree again !
Quacker another bad joke and I'm leaving !
Value be my Valentine ?
Violet the cat out of the bag !
Voodoo you think you are !
Waddle you give me if I go away !
Waiter minute while I tie my shoelaces !
Waiter I get my hands on you !
Water be ashamed of yourself for living in a dump like this !
Water skier'd of, I'm harmless !
You sound like an owl !
Wicked go for long walks together !
Wicked make beautiful music together !
