Imagine that you lived in a place where you had to ask someone else's
permission to leave your property.  Even if the other person always gave
permission, you wouldn't be free.  You'd be under conditional house
arrest, with the other person your discretionary jailor.  The case
wouldn't be much better if you had a choice of 5 people to ask, any one
of whose permission would let you leave your property.  Then those 5
would be your joint jailors.  You'd have somewhat wider opportunities,
assuming their decisions were not coordinated.  But you'd still be
dominated by them.  To be fully free, it's not enough just to have wide
opportunities.  People must be free from the prospect of domination
power of others to arbitrarily put them in a state of subjection, where
they must beg to get an opportunity critical to living a free life. 
It's worse, from the perspective of freedom, to be deprived of a
critical opportunity by the arbitrary exercise of another's will, than
to lack it due to natural causes or lack of technological development. 
It's worse to be unable to cross an unnavigable river because others
arbitrarily forbid one from using the bridge, than because the
technology for building a bridge at that point is lacking.  In the first
case, one lives in a state of subjection to others; in the second, one
is merely technologically poor.
The "house arrest" case does not require that the "jailors" be state
agents.  They could be private property owners, in a property regime
that enforces an absolute right against tresspass, and in which an
entire territory is completely privately appropriated, such that some
parcels of private property are wholly surrounded by other parcels. 
Then the owners of the surrounded parcels would all be effectively
trapped by the owners of the surrounding ones.  They'd be unfree. 
They'd be unfree even if helicopter travel were feasible, and private
property owners didn't have airspace rights, so one could fly over their
property.  A property regime that makes escape from one's property
/either/ massively expensive, inconvenient, rarely scheduled, and likely
beyond one's budget, /or/ conditional on someone's arbitrary will, is
nearly as bad from the perspective of freedom as one that conditions it
on someone's arbitrary will alone.
I'm going to argue that consideration of freedom in cases like these yields:
1. An argument in favor of keeping certain parcels of land in the commons;
2. An argument in favor of the common carrier rule
operators of transportation, communication, and hotel services offer
their services to all, without discrimination);
3. An argument in favor of applying the common carrier rule to
pharmacists and other providers of medical care.
Robert Nozick considered cases like these (Anarchy, State, and Utopia
p. 55).  He rightly argued that in such circumstances, property rights
against trespass should yield to the compelling liberty interest of
trapped persons in being free to leave their property.  Nozick's answer
entails that/ the bundle of rights that should go along with a parcel of
private property may properly vary with the impact the exercise of those
rights has on the liberty of other people./  It recognizes a point I
made in an earlier post
securing an exclusive right to the owner, private property takes away
certain liberties of others.  This raises the question of whose
liberties should prevail in determining the proper scope of a property
right.
Nozick answered this question by invoking what he called "the Lockean
Proviso": a diminution of one's freedoms due to the private property
appropriations of others is ok as long as it doesn't make one worse off
than one would have been in a state of nature without any private
property  (Anarchy, State, and Utopia, p. 175).  The case of being
trapped makes one worse off than if one could move around, which one was
free to do in the pre-appropriation state.  So Nozick can claim that
surrounded individuals have a right to an easement across the property
of the surrounding owners under the Lockean Proviso.
Brad DeLong has offered a devastating internal criticism
of Nozick's Lockean Proviso.  The Proviso permits taking away people's
natural rights (to use the whole earth freely--which they enjoy before
there is any appropriation) just so long as this makes people no worse
off in terms of utility.  Utilitarians are of course happy with this. 
But the whole point of Nozick's system is to oppose such tradeoffs of
rights against utility.  DeLong argues that Nozick is inconsistent: 
he's got to allow such tradeoffs to get private property off the ground,
but after that, he wants to prohibit them.
To be consistent, Nozick should have judged property regimes in the
currency of freedom, rather than utility.  Moreover, Nozick should have
considered that the important comparison is not between having /his/
specification of a private property regime and having /no/ private
property, but between /alternative specifications of property regimes/.
If freedom is what matters, then we should choose the specification that
best promotes the freedom of everyone.  It is not sufficient to justify
Nozick's specification of private property rights that it satisfies the
Lockean proviso, if lots of alternative specifications would equally
well satisfy it, but generate a superior package of freedoms for people
generally.  We should choose the specification that generates the best
package of freedoms overall.
Given that every specification of a private property right secures some
freedoms at the cost of others, we need a rough metric of the value of
freedoms to determine which specification would be best. In general, the
answer will depend upon two factors:
1) Whether each person has a more compelling interest in exercising a
given person-specific liberty in himself (for example, P deciding
whether P shall leave P's property) than in exercising that liberty in
the person of another (P deciding whether S shall leave S's property); and
2) Whether permitting the liberty to be used, transferred, or
constrained
the ways specified has dynamic effects that generally enhance people's
overall package of liberties.
(Let me introduce a notation to help us compare the freedoms made
available by rival specifications of property rights.  We can ignore the
liberties that the rival specifications have in common, and consider
only where they differ.  Since every property right trades off some
liberties for others, we can denote property right X in terms of the
ways it differs from Y as follows:  X = [people have liberty a, and lack
liberty b]; Y = [people lack liberty a, and have liberty b].)
Considerations of the first type typically speak to individuals' freedom
in the sense of personal independence or non-domination.  Some liberties
in the person are so critical to freedom that each person has a more
compelling liberty interest in possessing them in their own person than
in possessing them in the person of anyone else.  For each person P, P
has a stronger liberty interest in having the freedom to determine what
P shall think, whom P will befriend, when P will leave P's property,
etc., than in having the freedom to determine what anyone else S shall
think, whom S will befriend, whether S will leave S's property, etc.  In
short, the liberty package [I'm secured against being a slave to anyone,
I can't own any slaves] is a more valuable package of freedoms than the
package [I could be a slave to someone, I could own slaves].  Such
considerations generate grounds not just for "self-ownership," but for
inalienable rights
one's own person.  (And no, dynamic considerations of free contract do
not always override such arguments.  Having the right to sell oneself
into slavery does not make one freer than not having the right to sell
oneself into slavery, because having that right weakens one's bargaining
position and thereby shrinks one's opportunities.  Opportunities others
would have offered to one in a regime in which one enjoys an inalienable
right against enslavement they may now offer only on condition of
accepting enslavement.)
Considerations of the second, dynamic, type usually speak to
individuals' opportunity freedom, and do most of the work in determining
how to specify the bundles of rights properly attached to any parcel of
property external to the self.  Yet, as the "house arrest" cases show,
considerations of non-domination or personal independence enter here as
well.  The liberty package [I can leave my property without having to
ask anyone else's permission; others can cross my property if they need
to do so to leave their own property] is superior to the package [I
can't leave my property without asking someone else's permission; I can
forbid anyone from crossing my property].
So far, I have shown that system B, in which all property is privately
appropriated, combined with easements for everyone to cross /their
neighbors/' property, secures more freedom than system A, in which all
property is privately appropriated, and everyone has strict rights
against trespass.  Yet there are compelling liberty interests that B
would not satisfy.  Each of us has a compelling interest in being free
to have visitors to our homes, without having to ask anyone else's
permission.  System C: [all property privately appropriated; anyone has
the right to cross /anyone's/ property en route to someone else's home]
secures a superior package of freedoms than either A or B.  Still, C
could be faulted for its failure to limit easement rights.  A few people
crossing one's lawn is no big deal; but big crushes of people will
invade one's privacy and leave one without the freedom to enjoy one's
property in peace.  C also fails to satisfy our compelling liberty
interests in having spaces where we can freely meet larger groups of
people than we can fit on our properties, and where we can meet lots of
people who might gather spontaneously.
What we really need to have a free society is a system in which each
property owner (and renter) has unconditional access to a network of
/common/ roads and parks, that links every parcel of private property to
every other parcel, so that everyone has access to every place and to
common spaces.  Such a system could be instantiated in the following ways:
D: Property left in the commons (not privately appropriated, nor under
formal collective ownership and management), and by convention dedicated
to transport and communication;
E: Private property open to the public on non-discriminatory terms--that
is, where any member of the public has a right of access to it, and the
private property owner is not allowed to arbitrarily exclude anyone from
using it, although they may charge a toll for its use.  In other words,
privately owned toll roads subject to a common carrier rule.
F: Public property collectively managed for purposes of public transport
and communication, and funded by general taxes (not tolls).
There is no sound liberty-based argument for G: private ownership of all
roads /without/ a common carrier rule.   That is the equivalent of
letting some individuals arbitrarily trap others, unable to travel to a
destination where they have a right to be.  The possibility of competing
private roads to the same destination doesn't change this calculation. 
That's like the case of being surrounded by 5 property owners rather
than 1:  having five jailors doesn't make it ok for any one of them to
arbitrarily deny you the right to cross their property, if you need to
do so to escape your own property.  If private operation of public
access roads is to contribute to a free society, it must be subject to
the common carrier rule.
In general, F offers a superior package of freedoms to either D or E.  F
is more free than D because it allows improvements to common paths that
can increase the traffic they can bear, as well as traffic lights and
traffic rules than can vastly increase opportunities for mobility
is more free than E because it doesn't tax communication with others at
the margin, as toll roads do.  (Thus, the poor and pedestrians generally
have a superior package of travel opportunities under F than E, because
they can walk on the roads for free; and we all gain opportunities from
free communication with others, which would be discouraged if each
personal interaction carried a toll.)  There may be exceptions to the
general superiority of F over E.  Sometimes public toll roads can be
justified (e.g., fast toll-based lanes designed to relieve highway
traffic jams); sometimes privately operated toll roads are (e.g., if the
state is too poor or fiscally improvident to manage construction of
public roads, and too corrupt to be trusted with tolls).  But these
cases are peripheral.
F and E share a common feature:  /In a free society, it is impossible
for private individuals to avoid supporting the freedom of others to do
things of which they disapprove./  Under F, we all pay taxes to support
the public roads, which enable people to travel to the church of their
choice, however much we may disapprove of their choice.  There is no
conscience exemption to withold that portion of one's taxes that
supports a road to a church that one believes promotes a false
religion.  Nor would freedom be gained on net by modifying E (under the
common carrier rule) to H: giving private operators of public road
accommodations a limited conscience exemption to the common carrier
rule, to prevent individuals from using their road to travel to the
church of what they regard as a false religion.  The package [I'm free
to travel to the church of my choice; I can't prevent anyone from
travelling to the church of their choice] is superior to the package
[road operators are free to block me from using the roads needed to
travel to the church of my choice; I am free to block others from using
my road to travel to the church of their choice].  To those private road
operators who would find it unconscionable to facilitate others' travel
to the church of what they regard as a false religion, the proper
response of a free society is not to let them block the travel, but to
advise them that they had better get out of the road business.
There are many public accommodations that secure a superior package of
freedoms under a common carrier rule than under a rule that permits
arbitrary discrimination on the grounds of individual conscience, or
other arbitrary grounds.  The Civil Rights Act of 1964, barring
discrimination in access to public accommodations such as buses,
restaurants, and hotels on grounds of race, is based on the claim that
the package [I am free from discrimination to use any public
accomodation; I am not free to use my ownership of a public
accommodation to advance a racial caste system] secures a superior set
of freedoms than the package [others are free to try to make me an
untouchable in civil society; I am free to use my ownership of a public
accommodation to advance a caste system].  Note here that considerations
of non-domination are important over and above opportunity.  Even if
someone else is willing to offer me a room at a hotel without regard to
my race (so I don't lack the opportunity to stay overnight in some
city), this does not remove the subjection inherent in anyone trying to
make me a subordinate caste, by depriving me of a hotel room on account
of my race.
This argument generalizes.  The operators of a private telephone system
should not be able to claim a right of religious conscience to eavesdrop
on telephone conversations, so they can cut off blasphemous phone
calls.  The operator of an ambulance service that takes public calls,
who is a Christian Scientist, may not claim a right of religious
conscience to refuse to transport any emergency case to the hospital,
unless it is for the treatments permitted to a Christian Scientist (bone
setting, pulling an infected tooth).  A Talibanesque taxi driver may not
conscientiously refuse to serve women unaccompanied by male relatives,
on the ground that he might thereby be facilitating their sinful
consorting with the opposite sex.  And similarly, a pharmacist may not
claim a right of religious conscience to refuse to fill a prescription
for birth control to women, or to single women, on the ground that he
might thereby be facilitating the sin of fornication.
In the original debates over the Civil Rights Act of 1964, opponents
claimed that operators of public accommodations had a sacred right to
freedom of association, as if all that was at stake was the right to
exercise one's idiosyncratic tastes over whom one wants to serve.  (Even
if that were all that was at stake, it should still have to yield to the
common carrier rule, which underpinned the CRA
But the "taste" for not serving blacks was inseparable from the desire
to reduce them to an untouchable caste.  Similarly, the "tender
religious conscience" against filling birth control prescriptions is
inseparable from a religious world-view that regards women as properly
confined to a mothering caste (with their sexuality limited to
reproductive purposes).  The Christian pharmacist who refuses to fill
birth control prescriptions differs only in degree and not in kind from
the Talibanesque taxi driver who refuses to serve women who are
unaccompanied by their male relatives.
The potential availability of competing pharmacists who assert no
conscience exemptions is no argument
favor of allowing them in some cases.  For there may be no such
providers.  (Recall the frequency of this situation for blacks in the
U.S. before 1964, where they met comprehensive discrimination in many
markets in the North, even in the absence of Jim Crow laws.)  Even if
there are some in a distant county, or on the Internet, this is like the
person who can escape her property only by helicopter.  Even if there
are some in the same county, this is like the person who has five
independent jailors rather than just one.  If women in many towns and
counties are not to be turned into a subordinate, unfree caste, limited
to the opportunity package [motherhood, celibacy] by the dominion of
others, then pharmacists must not have a right to deny them access to
birth control.  The freedom to use one's pharmacy as an instrument for
promoting one's religious beliefs is nothing compared to the freedom of
escape from subordinate caste status-- and even to the freedom of being
branded with the badges of subordinate caste status (in the case where
women have other easily accessible pharmacies willing to serve them, but
still may be snubbed by this or that pharmacist).
There are some public accommodations of such vital interest to each
person that each has a compelling liberty interest in unfettered access
to it, without being subject to the arbitrary decisions of those who
operate them.  The right to operate a public accommodation is not the
right to inflict one's religious beliefs on others.  The pharmacist's
license is a license to practice pharmacy for others, not a license to
practice one's religion on others.  The state, in the name of freedom,
properly enforces a common carrier rule in such cases.
